## So Summer 2025 Rolls around 

and I'm working at this place called IKO Industries, particularly IKO Southwest in Hillsboro, TX. It is a kind of traveler town. Has a population of around 8788 peoples as of writing this. When people drive from DFW to Austin/San Antonio the 2 east and west parts of I-35 merge to one lane. When it does, there comes a Bucee's gas station with all sorts of various goods. And of course there is the smell of burning natural gas (yes the air quality is pretty bad over there). It's not because of the cars or the people in their diesel trucks or anything... it's because of the factory that I'm working at has a lot of boilers that utilize natural gas. 

IKO Industries makes roofing shingles that are slightly cheaper than the competition, but have lasting quality, and have gotten to the reputation of brands like Owen's Corning or GAF... In particular the IKO® Dynasty® shingles are one of the most popular type of shingle, and they are what's known as a "Class 3 impact rating", follow a bunch of ASTM standards that I have no clue about and have this thing called ArmourZone® tape which holds the shingle in place even if the fiberglass-asphalt-rock-covered shingle falls apart....

You might be wondering, why would I choose to work at a place like this? Well... I was a freshman in college trying to build my resume when this place decided to take a chance on me to see if I can contribute any skills... and I was sort of desparate... so I took the offer! I made around 23 bucks an hour. 

### The place and work

I took a tour of the place and dang it smelt pretty.... interesting. It was very dusty, (mostly due to the combination of fiberglass-paper rolls, rock dust, SBS-asphalt mixtures burning, hot oil etc.). It was also plenty loud, so I often wore headphones or earbuds around the place to block out the sound. Did I mention that I also had to wear steel-toe boots? yeah that was a little uncomfortable. There seemed to be a lot of microplastics or dust in the air, but it all was within OSHA standards, so we were good (I saw this as a sign that, I would not like to work here long-term). 

In the first week it was kind of awkward. So I walked in there with my steel-toed boots, and I enter a meeting room and got my laptop where I just did HR training videos conversed with my fellow new hires. Most of which whom were Indian. Afterwards, I got set down on my office, where it was an open space. They didn't have much for me to do so they told me to talk with the operators and learn how a roofing shingle gets made. There are a lot of components, the dry roll, the FPL, coater applicator, granule applicator (I checked out this spot often), the dragon tooth lanes, the cutters, the laminator (I focused on this spot), the packaging. 

The projects I received weren't interesting but I got a first look on what corporate and jobs feel like, meetings every single day, presenting your findings, doing some cost savings, learning how to order from vendors and deal with dealers. Figuring out how to write instructions and be a "process engineer" which is really just cost cutting and writing instructions for things... there aren't that much engineering-engineering activities you can do with being a process engineer. I think automation and PLCs were the fun thing, and creating programs to monitor data on the HMIs was a fun thing (that was like 15% of my time there). I made a current monitoring tool for some motors that had forks on them that cleaned this dirty wheel as it spun... and then one time it broke! So I took apart a gearbox and did some analysis and found some metal shavings... this would eventually lead me to grow into other roles more related to my field.

Most of the time, I was in charge of managing the quality of these size 14 granules, b/c a new plant in Ennis was being made that specializes in metal roofing shingles, and I needed to support that. The new jig and slide were already designed, and I'd just take samples of the thing and decide if they were too small too big... most of the time it was too small, but the previous engineer was thinking ahead and bought a self-sieving-cleaning sifter so I used that and it sorta worked, but it required to be cleaned, and we needed a better long term solution. We used a SWECO seperator, and the previous engineer made chutes to kind of funnel the good stuff and funnel the bad stuff... we were getting like a 50% yield out of it, but our potential was to get a 80% yield... apparently, and I was unable to come up with a solution because we are limited by time, because 1 - the thing needs to go fill up bags fast, 2 - it can't fill up the separator too fast otherwise we waste too much, 3 - it costs heat and time and maintenence to always have to tighten, lubricate the rings, etc. We just needed a bigger separator but our plant was unable to do that. 

But even then it was just a matter of submitting work orders and making sure the PMs were followed and things were being assembled correctly. It was sometimes kind of sketchy, as most maintenence men didn't have a correct SOP. They were sometimes also missing essential parts so what they did was just use makeshift joints and screws, and when it breaks they blame the engineers and thus the interns. Some people were really unfriendly! But my group of engineers were alright. It was chill. 

### The surrounds 

In the early Monday morning, I'd make my way to Hillsboro. I'd hop on 635E, and merge onto I20, then turn to I35E. The first Buccees I see I take the exit and I turn onto bumpy roads to the shingle factory and clock in around 7 AM, figuring out my day and my tasks and perhaps taking a bathroom break. My stuff and food were already packed in the car, and there was ice to keep it chilled, so once I arrived to my hotel, which was a short 5 minute drive away, I'd unload everything, take a shower and relax. Repeat this until Thursday, then I'd pack up... 

After work I'd often stop by the park and walk around or go around town with my vehicle. At this time, I felt stuck, and away from society. I only had enough money to eat out once a week (less than 23 bucks for a meal for me). The food just didn't hit at all, I tried to visit nice BBQ and restaurant places around Hillsboro with my spare cash, but even then it kind of sucked. Heck I even drove to Waco, and while it was slightly better the food sucked. It just reminded me how much food in the DFW region kicks ass (it's so good and affordable). The only place I hit up often was this Chinese restaurant where I can get a lot of food for cheap, but even then I didn't want to go every week for health reasons. The hotel was mid, and there weren't that much places to make friends with others. 

While this place is an alright place to retire, I don't think it's a place to grow. People here don't seem to dream that often, because the dreams aren't there. Some people of Hillsboro and the surrounding towns just come to work the same job and do the same thing for the entire time. It's desolate, it's empty, and it's hopeless. The only way to connect to my family was through my phone and I was doing that often. It felt so depressing and humbling that I went from making robots that would compete against other robots around the world, and then going to work in a dang shingle factory. 

### The weekends

Every weekend I drove back up to Dallas and did some fun things. I'd play drums every Sunday and ate some nice food to go along with that. Bun bo hue, Pho... Com Tam, Banh xeo, bo la lot, thit kho, hu tieu, bun rieu... and more... it was great. I took a look back and recognized how blessed I was and not to take my work and life for granted. 

### The end 

Things started to slow down.. my co-interns were graduating and had places to be. I started to feel a wave of relaxation on my final week as I said goodbye and gave them my keycard access. I took my helmet and other things and hopped on my car... never to return back in awhile. 
